Documentation for using F!F with containers (#1500)
ibissource/iaf: Docker.md

==============

The images are based on Tomcat, all restrictions and considerations that apply to Tomcat also apply to using the provided images.

## HTTPS and authentication

By default, the image uses the default server.xml of Tomcat which is not configured for inbound HTTPS traffic and user authentication on the administration console. To secure your application, replace server.xml with a secured version matching your requirements.

Note: The GUI will not load data if accessed via HTTP and `dtap.stage!=LOC`, HTTP-based listeners will still process messages.

## Secrets

Special consideration should be taken with secrets. As described on the [Tomcat website](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/TOMCAT/Password), passwords are stored in plain text. 

We provide the following options to include secrets:
- Via environment variables as described in the [Tomcat documentation](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-8.5-doc/config/systemprops.html#Property_replacements). By default all environment variables and their values are visible on a number of pages in the console and in the log files, to hide those values `properties.hide` should include the environment variables to hide.

> -

Author: Not really sure which other options we currently have, #1526 is not yet implemented, and I haven't tried reading from file yet and I'm not sure how to let tomcat read those additional files in a sensible way (would also suffer from the same limitations as environment variables regarding visibility in the console and logging).

Frank!Framework with Docker
===========================

> Docker images are provided, suitable both for local and server use. Images are provided from the registry located at <https://TBD>, the source is avalaible from the [docker-folder](docker/appserver/Tomcat) in this repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker images are provided, suitable both for local and server use. Images are provided from the registry located at <https://nexus.frankframework.org>, the source is avalaible from the [docker-folder](docker/appserver/Tomcat) in this repository.
```

# Contents

- [General use](#General-use)
  - [Local use](#Local-use)
  - [Server use](#Server-use)
- [Filesystem](#Filesystem)
  - [Directories](#Directories)
  - [Files](#Files)
  - [Permissions](#Permissions)
- [Logging](#Logging)
- [Environment variables](#Environment-variables)
- [Health and readiness](#Health-and-readiness)
- [Considerations](#Considerations)
  - [HTTPS and authentication](#HTTPS-and-authentication)
  - [Secrets](#Secrets)
  - [Non-root](#Non-root)

General use
===========
The image contains an empty framework-instance that needs to be configured before use.

Whether using the container locally or building your own image for use on servers, refer to [Filesystem](#Filesystem) information on which directories and files to mount or copy.

For a list of available tags, see https://nexus.frankframework.org/#browse/search/docker.

## Local use

To run the image, run the following command, adding environment variables and mounts as needed:

> `docker run --publish <hostport>:8080 [-e <name>=<value>] [--mount type=bind,source=<source>,target=<target>] --name <name> nexus.frankframework.org/frank-framework[:<tag>]`

Reviewer 2: Ik denk dat het goed is om een uitleg of voorbeeld te geven van alles wat je tussen '<' en '>' gespecificeerd hebt.

Health and readiness
====================

The health and readiness of the container can be monitored by polling the `/iaf/api/server/health` API endpoint. This will return a HTTP statuscode of 200 if all adapters are running and a HTTP statuscode of 503 if there are adapters in a non-running state.

Considerations
==============

The images are based on Tomcat, all restrictions and considerations that apply to Tomcat also apply to using the provided images.

## HTTPS and authentication

By default, the image uses the default server.xml of Tomcat which is not configured for inbound HTTPS traffic and user authentication on the administration console. To secure your application, replace server.xml with a secured version matching your requirements.

Note: The GUI will not load data if accessed via HTTP and `dtap.stage!=LOC`, HTTP-based listeners will still process messages.

## Secrets

Special consideration should be taken with secrets. As described on the [Tomcat website](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/TOMCAT/Password), passwords are stored in plain text. To use secrets in your Tomcat and Frank!Application configuration, you can take the following steps:

> - In your configuration, refer to the username as `${<secret-name>/username}` and password as `${<secret-name>/password}`

Reviewer 2: - In Frank!Application configuration, use `authAlias` to refer to a combination of username and password

Author: Misschien goed om dat in IAF-TEST voor Tomcat ook volledig in te richten, nu wordt [ConfigurationAuthentication](https://github.com/ibissource/iaf/blob/master/test/src/main/configurations/MainConfig/ConfigurationAuthentication.xml) niet actief gezet voor Tomcat, omdat de betreffende authAlias op Tomcat niet wordt ingericht (is nog uit de tijd dat we geen credentialProvider hadden)

Frank!Framework with Docker
===========================

> Docker images are provided, suitable both for local and server use. Images are provided from the registry located at https://nexus.frankframework.org, the source is avalaible from the [docker-folder](docker/appserver/Tomcat) in this repository.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker images are provided, suitable both for local and server use. Images are provided from the registry located at https://nexus.frankframework.org, the source is available from the [docker-folder](docker/appserver/Tomcat) in this repository.

```

| /usr/local/tomcat/conf/catalina.properties | Server properties, contains default framework values | Do not replace this file, use [Environment variables](#Environment-variables) or append to the file, see [Dockerfile](docker/appserver/Tomcat/Dockerfile) for an example |

## Permissions

As this image does not run Tomcat using the root user, file permissions need to be set correctly. By default this is done during startup, to ensure that all files copied to the above locations have the correct permissions. For images with a large number of files in these locations, this can reduce startup performance. It is possible to set the permissions during build and disable the step during startup by adding the following lines at the end of your Dockerfile:
```
RUN /setPermissions.sh
ENV SET_PERMISSIONS_ON_STARTUP=FALSE
```

Logging
=======

Generated log files are stored in `/usr/local/tomcat/logs`.

Environment variables
=====================

Environment variables can be used to set parameters. Environment variables have the highest precedence and override parameters set in .property files supplied by Tomcat, resources and configurations.

> As `org.apache.tomcat.util.digester.PROPERTY_SOURCE=org.apache.tomcat.util.digester.EnvironmentPropertySource` is set in our images, environment variables can also be used to replace parameters in Tomcat configuration files such as server.xml and context.xml.

Reviewer: Het gaat natuurlijk met name on het gebruik van de CredentialProvider om je wachtwoorden niet te exposen. Deze properties moeten in credentials.properties staan. Indirect inherit deze file inderdaad van de environment variables.
let wel op, het framework weet niets van de credentials.properties af, je kan er dus alleen properties in zetten voor de CredentialProvider.

Reviewer 2: Om CredentialProvider te kunnen gebruiken moet nl.nn.credentialprovider.CredentialProvidingPropertySource gebruikt worden.

Health and readiness
====================

The health and readiness of the container can be monitored by polling the `/iaf/api/server/health` API endpoint. This will return a HTTP statuscode of 200 if all adapters are running and a HTTP statuscode of 503 if there are adapters in a non-running state.

Considerations
==============

The images are based on Tomcat, all restrictions and considerations that apply to Tomcat also apply to using the provided images.

## HTTPS and authentication

> By default, the image uses the default server.xml of Tomcat which is not configured for inbound HTTPS traffic and user authentication on the administration console. To secure your application, replace server.xml with a secured version matching your requirements.

Reviewer: Dit kan tegenwoordig via een property, `application.security.http.authentication=true/false` (user/roles) en `application.security.http.transportGuarantee=none/confidential` (https).

Default inderdaad op loc UIT, en anders AAN.

Frank!Framework with Docker
===========================

Docker images are provided, suitable both for local and server use. Images are provided from the registry located at <https://TBD>, the source is avalaible from the [docker-folder](docker/appserver/Tomcat) in this repository.

General use
===========

The container contains the following important directories:
| location | description |
|---|---|
| /opt/frank/testtool | For Larva tests that are included in the image |
| /opt/frank/testtool-ext | For Larva tests that are mounted from the environment |
| /usr/local/tomcat/lib/ | Contains drivers and other dependencies |

The container also contains the following important files:
| location | description |
|---|---|

> | /usr/local/tomcat/conf/Catalina/localhost/iaf.xml | mount/copy of your context.xml |

Reviewer 2: Misschien is het goed om een opmerking te maken dat 'localhost' in context.xml vervangen moet worden door 'host.docker.internal' (of dat je een truuk verzint waardoor dat automatisch gaat wanneer nodig)

Author: Ik heb er een opmerking bij gezet dat host.docker.internal gebruikt kan worden om terug te komen op de host-machine. 

Automatische bepaling gaat denk ik meer problemen opleveren dan dat het oplost, omdat context.xml echt omgeving-specifiek is en dus door de omgeving correct aangeleverd moet worden. Daarin gaan rommelen zal processen vereisen die voor Tomcat draaien en dan Tomcat starten, maar dat is flink wat extra complexiteit omdat je primaire proces in de container niet langer Tomcat is, maar dat script.
